docs/organizations/inviting-users.mdx, before:

---
title: Invite users to an organization
description: Learn how to invite new users to an organization.
---

# Invite users to an organization

Organization administrators have the ability to invite new users to their organization and manage those invitations. When an administrator invites a new member, an invitation email is sent out. The invitation recipient can be either an existing user of your application or a new user. If the latter is true, the user will be registered once they accept the invitation.

In React and Next.js applications, the [`useOrganization()`](/docs/references/react/use-organization) hook returns the `organization` property, which is then used to call [`organization.inviteMember()`](/docs/references/javascript/organization/invitations#invite-member) passing in the recipient's email address and desired role (either `basic_member` or `admin`).

Administrators are also able to revoke organization invitations for users that have not yet joined, which will prevent the user from becoming an organization member. This is done by calling the [`revoke()`](/docs/references/javascript/organization-invitation#revoke) method on the invitations in the `invitationList` returned by the [`useOrganization()`](/docs/references/react/use-organization) hook.

## Usage

{/* TO-DO (DOCS-316): Add examples for React and JavaScript. Update and validate these code examples. */}

An example implementation in Next.js for inviting users and revoking pending invitations:

```jsx
import { useOrganization } from '@clerk/nextjs';
import { useState } from 'react';

function InviteMember() {
  const { organization } = useOrganization();
  const [emailAddress, setEmailAddress] = useState('');
  const [role, setRole] = useState<'basic_member' | 'admin'>('basic_member');
  const [disabled, setDisabled] = useState(false);

  const onSubmit = async e => {
    e.preventDefault();
    setDisabled(true);
    await organization.inviteMember({ emailAddress, role });
    setEmailAddress('');
    setRole('basic_member');
    setDisabled(false);
  };

  return (
    <form onSubmit={onSubmit}>
      <input
        type="text"
        placeholder="Email address"
        value={emailAddress}
        onChange={e => setEmailAddress(e.target.value)}
      />
      <label>
        <input
          type="radio"
          checked={role === 'admin'}
          onChange={() => {
            setRole('admin');
          }}
        />{' '}
        Admin
      </label>
      <label>
        <input
          type="radio"
          checked={role === 'basic_member'}
          onChange={() => {
            setRole('basic_member');
          }}
        />{' '}
        Member
      </label>{' '}
      <button type="submit" disabled={disabled}>
        Invite
      </button>
    </form>
  );
}

export default function InvitationList() {
  const { invitationList } = useOrganization({ invitationList: {} });

  if (!invitationList) {
    return null;
  }

  const revoke = async inv => {
    await inv.revoke();
  };

  return (
    <div>
      <h2>Invite member</h2>
      <InviteMember />

      <h2>Pending invitations</h2>
      <ul>
        {invitationList.map(i => (
          <li key={i.id}>
            {i.emailAddress} <button onClick={() => revoke(i)}>Revoke</button>
          </li>
        ))}
      </ul>
    </div>
  );
}
```

Commit message:

Custom organization invitations flow '__clerk_status' query parameter
Added a new section, as part of the organization invitations custom flow, regarding
redirect url and clerk status. We now document what are the possible values for
'__clerk_status' query parameter during a custom organization invitation flow and
what users need to do in order to complete the flow

docs/organizations/inviting-users.mdx, after:

---
title: Invite users to an organization
description: Learn how to invite new users to an organization.
---

# Invite users to an organization

Organization administrators have the ability to invite new users to their organization and manage those invitations. When an administrator invites a new member, an invitation email is sent out. The invitation recipient can be either an existing user of your application or a new user. If the latter is true, the user will need to register in order to accept the invitation.

In React and Next.js applications, the [`useOrganization()`](/docs/references/react/use-organization) hook returns the `organization` property, which is then used to call [`organization.inviteMember()`](/docs/references/javascript/organization/invitations#invite-member) passing in the recipient's email address and desired role (either `basic_member` or `admin`).

Administrators are also able to revoke organization invitations for users that have not yet joined, which will prevent the user from becoming an organization member. This is done by calling the [`revoke()`](/docs/references/javascript/organization-invitation#revoke) method on the invitations in the `invitationList` returned by the [`useOrganization()`](/docs/references/react/use-organization) hook.

## Usage

{/* TO-DO (DOCS-316): Add examples for React and JavaScript. Update and validate these code examples. */}

An example implementation in Next.js for inviting users and revoking pending invitations:

```jsx
import { useOrganization } from '@clerk/nextjs';
import { useState } from 'react';

function InviteMember() {
  const { organization } = useOrganization();
  const [emailAddress, setEmailAddress] = useState('');
  const [role, setRole] = useState<'basic_member' | 'admin'>('basic_member');
  const [disabled, setDisabled] = useState(false);

  const onSubmit = async e => {
    e.preventDefault();
    setDisabled(true);
    await organization.inviteMember({ emailAddress, role });
    setEmailAddress('');
    setRole('basic_member');
    setDisabled(false);
  };

  return (
    <form onSubmit={onSubmit}>
      <input
        type="text"
        placeholder="Email address"
        value={emailAddress}
        onChange={e => setEmailAddress(e.target.value)}
      />
      <label>
        <input
          type="radio"
          checked={role === 'admin'}
          onChange={() => {
            setRole('admin');
          }}
        />{' '}
        Admin
      </label>
      <label>
        <input
          type="radio"
          checked={role === 'basic_member'}
          onChange={() => {
            setRole('basic_member');
          }}
        />{' '}
        Member
      </label>{' '}
      <button type="submit" disabled={disabled}>
        Invite
      </button>
    </form>
  );
}

export default function InvitationList() {
  const { invitationList } = useOrganization({ invitationList: {} });

  if (!invitationList) {
    return null;
  }

  const revoke = async inv => {
    await inv.revoke();
  };

  return (
    <div>
      <h2>Invite member</h2>
      <InviteMember />

      <h2>Pending invitations</h2>
      <ul>
        {invitationList.map(i => (
          <li key={i.id}>
            {i.emailAddress} <button onClick={() => revoke(i)}>Revoke</button>
          </li>
        ))}
      </ul>
    </div>
  );
}
```

### Custom redirect url

Using Clerk's BE SDK, when creating an organization invitation, you can specify a custom redirect URL. When users click on organization invitation link, they get redirected to that URL after the ticket has been verified. The URL will contain two important query parameters added by Clerk, `__clerk_ticket` and `__clerk_status`.

The `__clerk_ticket` query parameter will hold the actual ticket token, which can be used during sign in and sign up flows in order to complete the organization invitation flow.

The `__clerk_status` query parameter is the outcome of the ticket verification and can take three values:
- `sign_in` which means that the user already exists in your application. You should create a ticket sign-in in order to complete the flow.
- `sign_up` which means that the user doesn't already exist in your application. You should create a ticket sign-up in order to complete the flow.
- `complete` which means that the user already exists and it was signed in. That means that the flow has been completed and no further actions are required.
